Add gateway claiming reference (#295)
TheThingsIndustries/lorawan-stack-docs: doc/content/gateways/gateway-claiming/make-gateways-claimable.md

---
title: "Make a Gateway Claimable"
description: ""
weight: 1
distributions: ["Enterprise", "Cloud"]
--- 

This guide explains the process of making a gateway claimable. When a gateway is claimable, someone else can claim it securely.

<!--more-->

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

{{< cli-only >}}

```

## Prerequisites

> 1. An gateway in The Things Stack Cloud. [See instructions]({{< ref "/gateways/adding-gateways" >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A gateway registered in The Things Stack Cloud. [See instructions for registering a gateway]({{< ref "/gateways/adding-gateways" >}})
```

Reviewer: Why The Things Stack Cloud when it is available for The Things Stack Enterprise too?

## Authorize Claiming

> In order for anyone to claim a gateway that is owned by you, you need to authorize claiming. This is needed for {{% tts %}} to move the gateway to the other user. This needs to be done separately for each gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order for anyone to claim a gateway that is owned by you, you need to authorize claiming. This is needed for {{% tts %}} to move the gateway to the other user and it needs to be done separately for each gateway.
```

Author: I prefer the original.

> 
> {{< cli-only >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Replace `<gateway-id>` with the **Gateway ID** of the gateway that you created in prerequisites, and run the following command in the CLI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace the `<gateway-id>` with the **Gateway ID** of your gateway and run the following command in the CLI:
```

Author: ```
Replace the `<gateway-id>`
```

This is grammatically incorrect. It's either 
```
Replace the `<gateway-id>` field (or value)
```

or (since this is already implied)
```
Replace `<gateway-id>`
```

```bash
$ ttn-lw-cli gateways claim authorize <gateway-id>
```

To undo the action:

```bash
$ ttn-lw-cli gateways claim unauthorize <gateway-id>
```

## Claiming Settings

> When a gateway is added in {{% tts %}}, it's claiming settings can be configured. This is comprised of a claim authentication code and a validity window. The claim authentication code is a secret value. The validity window is an optional start and end date on which the claim authentication code can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a gateway is added in {{% tts %}}, its claiming settings can be configured. 

This is comprised of a claim authentication code and a validity window. The claim authentication code is a secret value. The validity window is an optional start and end date on which the claim authentication code can be used.
```

> 
> {{< cli-only >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
